# Speedrunning on Twitch

This directory is meant to contain information on what you can do to get setup
on twitch. This README should help you get the basic gist of what software/setup
I have, with more in depth information in the specific files.

## Streaming Software

I personally use software called [GameShow][1]. It currently costs $30 for the
full version, but you can have a free version which adds an icon to your stream
as well. It has a fairly easy and straight forward setup that I found useful in
getting my stream setup. Several streamers use OBS or XSplit, and I've heard
good things about OBS specifically, but haven't ever used it. Twitch has some
good info about those 2 pieces of software, so I'd take a look there for setup
on those platforms, or any new ones that have come about.

## Audio/Video Setup

I use a [Logitech C270 Webcam][2] and [AverMedia ExtremeCap U3 Capture Card][3].
The setup is very easy for both, and it's a relatively (In My Opinion) cheap
setup for what I'm trying to do, which is stream from a PS3. If you have a 
PS4/XBone or do PC gaming/Emulators, you won't need the capture card. You might
also be able to get away with your laptops camera if the positioning works for
you. Really it's all about what you are going for, and I'd suggest going cheaper
than not to start to make sure you actually want to do streaming, and not just
speed running.

## General Setup

So I have a dual PC Monitor and laptop setup that I use for my streaming. Setup
is Laptop -> Monitor -> Monitor, where my Laptop has GameShow on it, middle
monitor has LiveSplit and my twitch dashboard (twitch.tv/{user}/dashboard), and
the last monitor is what I play my games on.

## During a Stream

Twitch offers a dashboard at twitch.tv/{user}/dashboard to use during a stream.
You can test your stream, watch chat, see sample video, etc... This should
definitely be up during your stream (on a side monitor) so that you can keep
track of everything that is happening.

[1]: http://www.gameshow.net/
[2]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004FHO5Y6/ref=oh_aui_detailpage_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1
[3]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00G9QTUVE/ref=oh_aui_detailpage_o01_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1