# Learning to Speed Run

This document is meant to talk about how I go about learning to speed run games.
Definitely not a perfect methodology, and I'm continuously learning what works
for me, but it's at least a start of the basics from someone who is documenting
their path to learning speed running from the very start. The following steps
are the ones I take for learning to speed run.

## Find a Game

The most important part is picking a game you actually want to run. If you don't
like the game you might as well call it.

## Find a Marathon Run

The first thing I do when I have a game I want to run is go and find a marathon
run of it. AGDQ, RPG Limit Break, etc..., find somewhere the speed run is
happening with good commentary. You can take notes of the game while the run is
happening, and get commentary as to why it is being run the way it is.
Understanding techniques is half the battle in mastering them. The main thing
you want in a speed run is speed, and you get that by just doing, not thinking.
The way you do that is by understanding what you need to do, as opposed to
having to remembering.

## Find Notes

Hopefully you have some notes from the run above, and now you can flesh out your
notes a little bit more with a more experienced runners. Good notes are hard to
find, but even something that can add a little more context to an area you
aren't quite sure about can be a big help.

## Preliminary Runs/Walkthrough

Okay, you have notes. Now "Run" the game. I like to do this by saving (if
available) at every split and putting my times in splits. This gives me a small
barometer to use, and helps me get familiar with the movements and techniques.
Also this will flesh out whether you really want to speed run this game or not.

## Practice

While doing the walk through, you should note any areas you felt uncomfortable
with or need practice at. If you are just slow, don't worry about it as that
will come with general practice. If you can't do a technique that is critical
however, then spend a bit of time on it. You have those save files after all, so
you should be able to get pretty close to the exact spot you need practice at.
Also spend some time practicing movement if you don't have it pretty much
mastered. Have you ever seen a great speed runner have poor movement? Of course
not, they practice that over and over since it's vital in every game they play.
Notice the every part. There are 0 games where movement doesn't cost time if you
are only good at it.

## Do Some Partial Runs

Okay, now you are feeling good, split the run up into partials. Maybe it's 1/2,
maybe 1/4, whatever you choose do a partial run at full speed, and get familiar
with going through splits back to back. You will be amazed how much you wear
down over the course of a run.

## Do a Run

Done some partials, and feeling good? Do the run. You are ready. Well you aren't
ready to have any kind of good time since this is the first time you are running
the game, but you've pretty much capped what you can do without just running the
game. Doing full runs will build your stamina, and also expose areas where you
really need more practice.