# Level 2 Stat Boosts

At level 2 we can obtain mini stat ups with 2 fights. This actually works out
perfect since we are likely to need 2 humours still from the level 1 dungeon.
This mini stat up phase will also determine what we will gain in the next boss
fight, so this is a good way to double up on a strength increase early on.

## How much time do the extra battles add?

In theory we can save at least 1 battle if not 2 if we obtain at least one
humour from the Level 1 dungeon. Those drops are unlikely however, as it's
uncommon to find a Beach Bum encounter as part of the Komodo Dragon pups. At
least one fight is usually necessary, so we will go under the assumption (a
pretty safe one) that we will end up with 1 extra fight to get the 2 battles
necessary here. Also for the sake of comparison, we will assume that it is
actually 1 1/2 battles for determining time since if we come for an extra humour
with Leena and a MagmaBomb, we end this fight in 1 round (generally). If we make
the assumption that a fight takes 30-40 seconds (round numbers), and take the
40 seconds for the worst case we are basically assuming we are adding 60 seconds
to get the extra stat up.

## Holy shit, you are adding a minute!? How in the world is that worth it?

Well, it turns out strength upgrades are extremely useful. That is my whole
basis for this strategy. Also since we are very early in the run, this is a good
time to reset if we are pushing for WR or a general PB. This should be about
15-18 minutes into the run by now, so a reset isn't the worst thing in the
world.

Getting an extra strength upgrade here also helps make the next fight faster,
which already helps gain some of the time back. Add that to the fact that if you
get a strength upgrade in the mini stat up, you will be guaranteed to get a
strength upgrade for the Kid fight. This basically acts as a +2 strength
upgrade, which is the max you can get for a strength upgrade on a level up.
Given how much fights change depending on the strength value of Serge, adding 1
extra strength can save a round on several fights, making the 1 minute (worst
case) time loss easily recoverable, and the runs more consistent.